.Dd November 18, 2023
.Dt CLUTTEX 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cluttex
.Nd a tool for processing TeX files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl e
.Ar ENGINE
.Op options
.Op Fl \-
.Ar FILE.tex
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Process TeX files without cluttering your working directory.
.Pp
The following options are accepted:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl e , Fl \-engine Ns = Ns Ar ENGINE
Specify which TeX engine to use.
.Ar ENGINE
is one of the following:
pdflatex, pdftex,
lualatex, luatex, luajittex,
xelatex, xetex, latex, etex, tex,
platex, eptex, ptex,
uplatex, euptex, uptex,
.It Fl \-engine\-executable Ns = Ns Ar COMMAND+OPTIONs
The actual TeX command to use.
[default:
.Ar ENGINE ]
.It Fl o , Fl \-output Ns = Ns Ar FILE
The name of output file.
[default:
.Ar JOBNAME Ns
\&.pdf or
.Ar JOBNAME Ns
\&.dvi]
.It Fl \-fresh
Clean intermediate files before running TeX.
Cannot be used with --output-directory.
.It Fl \-max-iterations Ns = Ns Ar N
Maximum number of running TeX to resolve cross-references.
[default: 3]
.It Fl \-start-with-draft
Start with draft mode.
.It Fl \-change-directory , Fl \-no-change-directory
Change directory before running TeX.
[default: no]
.It Fl \-watch Ns Op = Ns Ar ENGINE
Watch input files for change.
Requires fswatch or inotifywait to be installed.
.Ar ENGINE
is one of
.Sq fswatch ,
.Sq inotifywait
or
.Sq auto .
[default: auto]
.It Fl \-tex-option Ns = Ns Ar OPTION
Pass
.Ar OPTION
to TeX as a single option.
.It Fl \-tex-options Ns = Ns Ar OPTIONs
Pass
.Ar OPTIONs
to TeX as multiple options.
.It Fl \-dvipdfmx-option Ns = Ns Ar OPTION , Fl \-dvipdfmx-options Ns = Ns Ar OPTIONs
Same for dvipdfmx.
.It Fl \-makeindex Ns = Ns Ar COMMAND+OPTIONs
Command to generate index, such as
.Sq makeindex
or
.Sq mendex .
.It Fl \-bibtex Ns = Ns Ar COMMAND+OPTIONs
Command for BibTeX, such as
.Sq bibtex
or
.Sq pbibtex .
.It Fl \-biber Ns Op = Ns Ar COMMAND+OPTIONs
Command for Biber.
.It Fl \-makeglossaries Ns Op = Ns Ar COMMAND+OPTIONs
Command for makeglossaries.
.It Fl h , Fl \-help
Print this message and exit.
.It Fl v , Fl \-version
Print version information and exit.
.It Fl V , Fl \-verbose
Be more verbose.
.It Fl \-color Ns Op = Ns Ar WHEN
Make ClutTeX's message more colorful.
.Ar WHEN
is one of
.Sq always ,
.Sq auto ,
or
.Sq never .
[default:
.Sq auto
if Fl \-color is omitted,
.Sq always
if
.Ar WHEN
is omitted]
.It Fl \-includeonly Ns = Ns Ar NAMEs
Insert
.Sq \eincludeonly{ Ns Ar NAMEs Ns } .
.It Fl \-make-depends Ns = Ns Ar FILE
Write dependencies as a Makefile rule.
.It Fl \-print\-output\-directory
Print the output directory and exit.
.It Fl \-package\-support Ns = Ns Ar PKG1 Ns Op , Ns Ar PKG2 Ns ,...
Enable special support for some shell-escaping packages.
Currently supported: minted, epstopdf.
.It Fl \-check\-driver Ns = Ns Ar DRIVER
Check that the correct driver file is loaded.
.Ar DRIVER
is one of
.Sq dvipdfmx ,
.Sq dvips ,
.Sq dvisvgm .
.It Fl \-shell-escape , Fl \-no-shell-escape
.It Fl \-shell-restricted
.It Fl \-synctex Ns = Ns Ar NUMBER
.It Fl \-fmt Ns = Ns Ar FMTNAME
.It Fl \-file-line-error , Fl \-no-file-line-error
[default: yes]
.It Fl \-halt-on-error , Fl \-no-halt-on-error
[default: yes]
.It Fl \-interaction Ns = Ns Ar STRING
[default: nonstopmode]
.It Fl \-jobname Ns = Ns Ar STRING
.It Fl \-output-directory Ns = Ns Ar DIR
[default: somewhere in the temporary directory]
.It Fl \-output-format Ns = Ns Ar FORMAT
.Ar FORMAT
is
.Sq pdf
or
.Sq dvi .
[default: pdf]
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
